# Good Maps come from Operating Systems

The operating system you use to build your mobile, web, social media or print project can enhance your map.

@Metadata {
    @PageImage(purpose: icon, source: "desktop", alt: "")
}

## Overview

When you are building a map, consider the operating system you are building it on.
Use accessibility fonts to enhance label readability.  An operating systems that considers a users accessibility can be a major factor in creating better maps.
Apple MapKit combines good point of interest data with good accessibility for readability.

### Accessibility

- term A11Y: Accessibility, "*Accessibility can be viewed as the 'ability to access' and benefit from some system or entity.*"
- term [Dynamic Type][Dynamic Type]: A feature that lets people choose the size of visible text in iOS, iPadOS, tvOS, visionOS, and watchOS.
- term A11Y in Historical Cartography: Use larger fonts to call out historical aerial imagery. 

[Dynamic Type]: https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/typography#Specifications "Typography at apple.com"

### Demo 

iOS Dynamic Type Comparison

@TabNavigator {
    @Tab("ðŸ—ºï¸ MapKit xS") {
        @Image(source: "iPhone8+xS-MapKit") { }
    }
    
    @Tab("ðŸ—ºï¸ MapKit xxxL") {
        @Image(source: "iPhone8+xxxL-MapKit") { }
    }
    
    @Tab("âš™ï¸ Settings xS") {
        @Image(source: "iPhone8+xS-Settings") { }
    }
    
    @Tab("âš™ï¸ Settings xxxL") {
        @Image(source: "iPhone8+xxxL-Settings") { }
    }

    @Tab("ðŸŽ¥ Dynamic Type") {
        @Video(source: "iPhone8+MapKit-with-Dynamic-Type", 
               poster: "iPhone8+Poster", alt: "")
    }
}

### Research

Mapbox & MapLibre style-flavored research questions.

> Research: How to define points of interest to include or exclude on a map.  *Solved via OSM data.*

> ðŸ“± iOS Apple Dynamic Type: How to dynamically increase the `"text-size"` of a `symbol` label based on the Dynamic Type accessibility setting.  *Possibly solved  with MapKit JS*.
>
> Need a solution for MapLibre JS.
